Lab 2 Observations

Vincent Yu
COEN 146L
04/07/2020

Step 2:

netstat - 
    After using the netstat command, I see all the active internet connections that the machine has.
    It shows their active protocol, such as TCP, UDP, UNIX. It also shows their local and foreign addresses.
    The netstat command is useful for checking what internet connections are in your network and
    if the certain connections are working or not. It can also help you see if there are any suspicious connections.

ifconfig-
    After using the ifconfig command, I see all the network interfaces. Options can be used with the 
    ifconfig command so that instead of just dispalying the network interfaces, you can configure them.
    You can set the IP address of a network interface using the options.

hostname-
    After using the hostname command, I see that it just outputs the host of the system. Since I am using
    VirtualBox, the hostname was vincent-VirtualBox. You can also use options to set the hostname.

ping-
    After using the ping command, options just showed up that you can use with ping. Using the ping command
    alone doesn't result in anything. You need to use it on an IP address or website like ping google.com.
    Then it will start sending out packets to the address that you typed. You can use options to set the 
    number of pings, the size of packets sent, and the ping interval. At the end or if you choose to ctrl-c,
    it will show you statistics such as packets sent/received and the time it took, and also packet loss.

traceroute-
    After using the traceroute command, options showed up that you can use with traceroute. You need to use
    traceroute with an address, similar to ping command. I used traceroute google.com and what traceroute 
    does it give you information about the route a packet takes to get to its destination. It also shows 
    which servers it goes through and the time it took to get there.

telnet-
    After using the telnet command, it didn't display anthing useful. You need to use the telnet command
    with a 80 -http port. I connected to gaia.cs.umass.edu 80 and there was a successful connection. The 
    telnet command is used to establish a remote connection to server.

host/dig-
    After using the host and dig command, it just displays options so you need to use it with an address.
    I used host and dig with google.com. Both host and dig are used to lookup the DNS of the address. You
    can use host and dig to troubleshoot with the DNS.

route-
    After using the route command, it shows a routing table. With additional options you can use the route
    command to change the routing tables and set up routes to specific servers.

arp-
    After using the arp command, you need to use options with it so I used arp -a. It displays the 
    current ARP cache. You can also modify the cache. It shows the connections' IP addresses.


Step 3: 

USA: google.com
Europe: europa.eu
China: baidu.com

For each ping, I am sending 5 packets.

USA: yahoo.com-
32-bytes: 0% packet loss, 38.702ms avg RTT 
64-bytes: 0% packet loss, 38.676ms avg RTT
256-bytes: 0% packet loss, 38.724ms avg RTT
1048-bytes: 0% packet loss, 38.771ms avg RTT

Europe: visiteurope.com
32-bytes: 0% packet loss, 152.628ms avg RTT
64-bytes: 0% packet loss, 153.645ms avg RTT
256-bytes: 0% packet loss, 153.357ms avg RTT
1048-bytes: 0% packet loss, 156.581ms avg RTT

China: baidu.com-
32-bytes: 0% packet loss, 210.130ms avg RTT
64-bytes: 0% packet loss, 215.193ms avg RTT
256-bytes: 0% packet loss, 214.337ms avg RTT
1048-bytes: 0% packet loss, 221.543ms avg RTT


Since I am currently in the US, the time it takes to send packets to a US address is very short
(aobut 38ms RTT) and the packet size has very little effect on the time. Pinging a European address
takes about 152-156ms because it needs to send the packets overseas to Europe. Here the packet size has 
a much more noticable effect on the RTT. Sending packets to Asia to baidu.com took the longest because 
it is the furthest from the US. You can clearly see that sending larger packets has a much larger impact
on the RTT.



Step 5:
After connecting with telnet gaia.cs.umass.edu 80,
I pasted in:
    GET /kurose_ross/interactive/index.php HTTP/1.1
    Host: gaia.cs.umass.edu
Then I pressed the Enter button 2 times. 

Then the website (displayed in HTML format) appeared: https://gaia.cs.umass.edu/kurose_ross/interactive/index.php

After that the connection was closed.

1. The name of the file being retrieved in the GET is /kurose_ross/interactive/index.php
2. The client is running HTTP version 1.1
3. The format of text and images are in HTML format


Step 6: 

I used telnet for all three of the addresses: yahoo.com, baidu.com, and visiteurope.com.
For all three, I was able to connect using port 80.
When I tried using port 3389 or any other port, it would result in trying to connect to the address, and
it would try different addresses but in the end, even after waiting several minutes, there was no connection.

I experimented with the GET command and tried to connect to a site like yahoo.com/entertainment. I would get
a result but not the website. I would always end up at a HTML display that would be for yahoo.com's
"Bad HTML request" redirects.